Since there are a lot of different moving parts and systems that need to work together creating a complete
You'll learn how to implement all the moving parts into a working whole without having to program or
The phrase Web developer has a wide range of meanings but in this course you'll learn how to be an expert
WordPress implementer making functional custom web sites using the tools presented here and you'll be
By the end of this video you'll have an understanding of all the systems that work together to deliver
You'll have an example of any kind of web site imaginable and be ready to venture off on your own to
You need these three main things the Wordpress files a server to host them and a database.
The files are built into programming languages DHP and Javascript.
The server reads these files incorporates data from the database and delivers web pages to a browser
HDMI L and C Ss as a WordPress implementor you don't need to know much about these programming languages
but you do need to know how the systems work together will be setting up development environments that
These can be on your local computer or at a hosting company ready to deliver your websites to the world.
First self-contained.
It's a server just like hosting companies use but it's freely available to use on your local computer
to develop web sites without being connected to the Internet.
Map stands for my apache My sequel THP.
Apache is an open source web server that's used by many hosting companies.
It's enabled to use Add-Ons like my sequel databases and HP on which Wordpress is built.
Installing map on your local computer means that you can build and test web sites without needing to
If I started the server by clicking here you'll see the Apache server light up as well as my sequel
Once I have these running in the background I can navigate to a predefined address at the server through
any browser and open my WordPress website.
Take a look at the address bar.
I'm not on the internet.
I'm just navigating to the server on my local computer through map.
I can log into the Wordpress dashboard here by opening up the log in page in another tab and using the
Now if I change something on the site using the Wordpress dashboard I can save my changes and open the
I'll just open.
Hello world.
I'll type local for web site enabled and click update.
Now once I get the update post has been updated message I can navigate back to my Web site tab and refresh
Wordpress is communicating with the server using Apache and connecting to the database in the background
and then delivering the Web site pages to my browser.
All through my local map server environment.
Now if I open windows explorer I can show you the files that the server is using to surf the Web site
Here's the word press corps file structure and if I use the map interface inside my browser I can show
Let's go to man and if I click Open start page inside my browser.
It will open a map page that's again hosted locally on my computer and under my sequel I can click THP
my admin by using this utility built into the server called P-H PMI admin.
I can show you the database tables and here's where I made that change just now.
Under the local for database I can go to W.P. posts and all the tables under there are right here and
Local For web site enabled WordPress.
Though it started as a blogging platform has grown into a content management system or a CMOS.
A blog is just a Web site that's set up to deliver periodic posts and display them in reverse chronological
order because so many features and functions have been added to the Wordpress platform.
It's become the most popular CIMS in the world.
Powering more than 25 percent of all the Web sites on the Internet it's the convenience of managing
themes and plug ins for Wordpress that has let it to become so ubiquitous it's structure keeping the
through themes and functionality through plug ins allows WordPress websites to be easily managed by
My clients appreciate that I can give them the keys to their website so to speak and allow them to make
If we go back to the Wordpress dashboard I'll show you how you can manage and customize WordPress Web
development without having to program or code anything from scratch.
After they're installed into WordPress you can see that I have a few themes here and I can enable a
different theme to completely change the look of my web site.
Without changing the content it all take a look at the difference same Web site different look and feel
if I go back to Windows Explorer I can show you where the theme files are located in the WP content
enabled the 2014 theme.
The theme I had enabled before was called 2016.
These are some of the default themes that come with wordpress.
If I go back to W.P. content you can see that there's also a plug ins folder here.
And yes you guessed it that's where the plugin files are located.
While themes control the look and feel of a Web site built with wordpress plugins are used to control
For example here's a contact form plug in and I can show you where it's managed within the Wordpress
Back at the dashboard here's the plug in Section.
You can see the corresponding contact form plug in here.
The plug in provides a settings panel within the Wordpress dashboard located here.
And if I open that up I can manage my contact forms.
I want to get a functional contact form to appear on the Web site.
When someone fills out the form the plug in and wordpress combine forces to send me an email with the
Back in wordpress under pages you can see I've created a page in wordpress It's called contact me and
Here's where I've pasted it from the contact form plugin.
If I open the web site in my browser and I browse to this contact me page you can see the page I created
Now since this website is being developed locally I'd have to have another add on for Apache server
to be able to test the email delivery here.
WordPress has a robust transactional email delivery system that controls things like contact form emails
sending email to new users with their log in information and the forgotten password system so users
to accomplish the things I just mentioned.
There are other systems that will get into later to like domain name configuration client billing and
For now take note that we are using a web site address on our local server just for development purposes.
When you set up Web sites for clients you'll need to connect their domain names like exampled dot com
to their Web site.
We do this by pointing the domain through the domain registrar like go daddy dot com or another service
to the web server.
When we set up a live internet server at a hosting company we'll explore how to do this.
As you build more than 10 Web sites in this course you'll learn to connect the systems together to create
needs in the future.
To wrap it up in this video I've discussed how Wordpress is a content management system that contains
The main systems working together are pretty simple.
However a server with the ability to deliver web pages using both a file system and a database.
Will look at all the specific files in the word press corps file structure set up all your developer
Then we'll get started with business tools like invoicing using a spreadsheet template how to take one
To stay on top of trends see their